nvim/tk-tutorial.md, before:

# 📝 Telekasten Tutorial

A comprehensive guide to using your Neovim-based Zettelkasten note-taking system.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Launching Telekasten
```bash
# Launch with GUI (recommended)
neovide-notes

# Or with terminal
nvim-notes
```

### Essential Keymaps
- `<space>zd` - Open today's daily note
- `<space>zn` - Create new note
- `<space>zz` - Open telekasten panel
- `<space>mp` - Preview markdown with Glow

### Template Keymaps
- `<space>zp` - Create new project
- `<space>za` - Create new area
- `<space>zw` - Create new weekly note
- `<space>zm` - Create new monthly note
- `<space>zq` - Create new quarterly note
- `<space>zy` - Create new yearly note

## 📋 Daily Workflow

### 1. Start Your Day
1. Launch `neovide-notes`
2. Press `<space>zd` to open today's daily note
3. The template will automatically load with:
   - Date-based title
   - Daily objective prompt
   - Task list section
   - Log section for time-stamped entries
   - Seeds section for ideas

### 2. Capture Ideas
- **Quick capture**: Use the daily note's "Seeds" section
- **New notes**: Press `<space>zn` for a new zettel
- **Link notes**: Use `[[note title]]` syntax for wikilinks

### 3. Process Ideas
- **Weekly review**: Process seeds from daily notes
- **Create zettels**: Convert seeds into permanent notes
- **Link building**: Connect related concepts

## 🗂️ Note Types & Templates

### Daily Notes (`daily.md`)
- **Purpose**: Daily planning and capture
- **Features**: 
  - Date-based naming (YYYY-MM-DD)
  - Task management
  - Time-stamped log
  - Idea seeds inbox

### Weekly Notes (`weekly.md`)
- **Purpose**: Weekly review and planning
- **Features**:
  - Review last week's wins/challenges
  - Plan this week's objectives
  - Process idea seeds

### Monthly Notes (`monthly.md`)
- **Purpose**: Monthly reflection
- **Features**:
  - Monthly theme
  - Progress tracking
  - Goal setting

### Quarterly Notes (`quarterly.md`)
- **Purpose**: Strategic planning
- **Features**:
  - Strategic goal review
  - Quarterly theme
  - High-level planning

### Zettels (`zettel.md`)
- **Purpose**: Permanent knowledge notes
- **Features**:
  - Atomic concepts
  - Rich linking
  - Evergreen content

### Projects (`project.md`)
- **Purpose**: Specific deliverables with clear end dates
- **Features**:
  - Clear objectives and timeline
  - Key files and resources
  - Project notes and updates
  - Links to related areas and notes

### Areas (`area.md`)
- **Purpose**: Ongoing responsibilities and domains
- **Features**:
  - Current status tracking
  - Active projects within the area
  - Regular updates and notes
  - Links to related projects and notes

### Meeting Snippets
- **Purpose**: Quick meeting note templates within daily notes
- **Usage**: Type `meeting` and press `<Tab>` to expand
- **Features**:
  - Structured meeting format
  - Action items with checkboxes
  - Easy to insert anywhere in daily notes

## 🔗 Linking System

### Wikilinks
```markdown
[[Note Title]]           # Link to another note
[[Note Title|Display]]   # Link with custom display text
```

### Inserting Links
- **Easiest way**: `<leader>zl` - Opens link picker to search and select notes
- **Manual**: Type `[[` and start typing note title for autocomplete
- **From search**: Use `<space>ff` to find files, then link to them

### Backlinks
- Automatically generated in the "Backlinks" section
- Shows all notes that link to the current note
- Helps discover connections

### Link Navigation
- `gd` on a wikilink to follow it
- `gr` to find references to current note
- `gi` to find similar notes

### Backlink Search
- `:Telekasten backlinks` - Show all notes linking to current note
- `:Telekasten backlinks_here` - Show backlinks for note under cursor
- `:Telekasten search_links` - Search for notes containing specific link patterns

## 🎯 Advanced Features

### Calendar Integration
- Press `<space>zz` to open the telekasten panel
- Navigate dates visually
- Jump to specific daily notes

### Search & Discovery
- `<space>ff` - Find files (telescope)
- `<space>fg` - Live grep search
- `<space>fr` - Frecency (frequently used files)

### Media Support
- Paste images directly into notes
- Preview images with telescope-media-files
- Supports PNG, JPG, JPEG, GIF, WebP

### Markdown Preview
- `<space>mp` - Preview with Glow
- Real-time markdown rendering
- Terminal-native preview

### Snippets
- **Meeting notes**: Type `meeting` + `<Tab>` to insert meeting template
- **Expand snippets**: Use `<Tab>` to expand snippets
- **Navigate snippets**: Use `<Tab>` to jump between fields

### List Management
- **Auto bullets**: Press `Enter` after `-` to create new bullet point
- **Auto numbering**: Press `Enter` after `1.` to create numbered list
- **Auto indentation**: Bullets automatically indent after colons
- **Renumbering**: Numbered lists automatically renumber when items are added/removed
- **Empty cleanup**: Empty bullet points are automatically removed

### Timestamp Shortcuts
- **Insert time**: Press `<Ctrl-g><Ctrl-t>` in insert mode to insert current time (HH:MM)
- **Log entries**: Use in daily note log section for quick time-stamped entries
- **Note**: `<Ctrl-t>` is used by bullets.vim for indenting, so we use `<Ctrl-g><Ctrl-t>` for timestamps

## 📁 File Organization

### Directory Structure
```
~/Dropbox/Apps/zettelkasten/
├── daily/           # Daily notes (YYYY-MM-DD.md)
├── weekly/          # Weekly notes
├── monthly/         # Monthly notes
├── quarterly/       # Quarterly notes
├── templates/       # Note templates
└── [other notes]    # Regular zettels
```

### Naming Conventions
- **Daily**: `2025-01-22.md`
- **Weekly**: `2025-W04.md`
- **Monthly**: `2025-01.md`
- **Quarterly**: `2025-Q1.md`
- **Zettels**: `Descriptive Title.md`

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables
```bash
export TELEKASTEN_HOME="/path/to/your/zettelkasten"
# or
export ZK_HOME="/path/to/your/zettelkasten"
```

### Custom Templates
Templates are located in `~/Dropbox/Apps/zettelkasten/templates/`:
- `daily.md` - Daily note template
- `weekly.md` - Weekly note template
- `monthly.md` - Monthly note template
- `quarterly.md` - Quarterly note template
- `yearly.md` - Yearly note template
- `zettel.md` - Zettel template
- `project.md` - Project template
- `area.md` - Area template

## 🎨 Template Variables

Templates support these variables (use `{{variable}}` syntax):
- `{{date}}` - Date in ISO format (2025-01-22)
- `{{year}}` - Year (2025)
- `{{time24}}` - Time with 24-hour clock (19:12:23)
- `{{time12}}` - Time with 12-hour clock (07:12:23 PM)
- `{{hdate}}` - Date in long format (Sunday, January 22nd, 2025)
- `{{week}}` - Week of the year (46)
- `{{title}}` - Note title
- `{{shorttitle}}` - Short title (filename without path)
- `{{uuid}}` - Unique identifier
- `{{prevday}}` - Previous day (2025-01-21)
- `{{nextday}}` - Next day (2025-01-23)

For a complete list, run `:h telekasten.template_files` in Neovim.

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Daily Note Not Loading Template
1. Check if a blank daily note already exists
2. Delete the blank file: `rm ~/Dropbox/Apps/zettelkasten/daily/YYYY-MM-DD.md`
3. Try `<space>zd` again

### Templates Not Found
1. Run the setup script: `./nvim/scripts/setup.sh`
2. Check templates exist: `ls ~/Dropbox/Apps/zettelkasten/templates/`

### LSP Errors
- Ensure marksman is installed: `brew install marksman`
- Check LSP configuration in `lua/user/plugins/coding.lua`

## 💡 Best Practices

### Note Creation
1. **Start with daily notes** - capture everything there first
2. **Process regularly** - move ideas from daily to permanent notes
3. **Link everything** - build a web of connections
4. **Keep atomic** - one concept per zettel

### Linking Strategy
1. **Link to concepts**, not just topics
2. **Use descriptive titles** for easy linking
3. **Create index notes** for major topics
4. **Review backlinks** to discover connections

### Maintenance
1. **Weekly reviews** - process seeds and plan ahead
2. **Monthly reviews** - reflect on progress and themes
3. **Quarterly reviews** - strategic planning and goal setting
4. **Regular cleanup** - archive or delete outdated notes

## 🎯 Workflow Examples

### Daily Workflow
1. Open daily note (`<space>zd`)
2. Set daily objective
3. Add tasks to task list
4. Capture ideas in seeds section
5. Log important events with timestamps

### Weekly Workflow
1. Open weekly note
2. Review last week's daily notes
3. Process seeds from daily notes
4. Plan this week's objectives
5. Create zettels from processed ideas

### Research Workflow
1. Create a new zettel (`<space>zn`)
2. Take notes and add links
3. Create related zettels as needed
4. Build a network of connected concepts
5. Review backlinks to discover new connections

---

*Happy note-taking! 🎉*

Commit message:

Simplify daily notes and remove non-working meeting snippet
- Remove Seeds section from daily notes (use zettel workflow instead)
- Remove backlinks section from daily notes (not needed for chronological logs)
- Remove non-working meeting snippet (meeting + Tab)
- Update documentation to use copy-paste meeting template instead
- Daily notes now focused on: Tasks, Log, Links
- All tests pass: 15/15 success, 0 failures

nvim/tk-tutorial.md, after:

# 📝 Telekasten Tutorial

A comprehensive guide to using your Neovim-based Zettelkasten note-taking system.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Launching Telekasten
```bash
# Launch with GUI (recommended)
neovide-notes

# Or with terminal
nvim-notes
```

### Essential Keymaps
- `<space>zd` - Open today's daily note
- `<space>zn` - Create new note
- `<space>zz` - Open telekasten panel
- `<space>mp` - Preview markdown with Glow

### Template Keymaps
- `<space>zp` - Create new project
- `<space>za` - Create new area
- `<space>zw` - Create new weekly note
- `<space>zm` - Create new monthly note
- `<space>zq` - Create new quarterly note
- `<space>zy` - Create new yearly note

## 📋 Daily Workflow

### 1. Start Your Day
1. Launch `neovide-notes`
2. Press `<space>zd` to open today's daily note
3. The template will automatically load with:
   - Date-based title
   - Daily objective prompt
   - Task list section
   - Log section for time-stamped entries
   - Seeds section for ideas

### 2. Capture Ideas
- **Quick capture**: Use the daily note's "Seeds" section
- **New notes**: Press `<space>zn` for a new zettel
- **Link notes**: Use `[[note title]]` syntax for wikilinks

### 3. Process Ideas
- **Weekly review**: Process seeds from daily notes
- **Create zettels**: Convert seeds into permanent notes
- **Link building**: Connect related concepts

## 🗂️ Note Types & Templates

### Daily Notes (`daily.md`)
- **Purpose**: Daily planning and capture
- **Features**: 
  - Date-based naming (YYYY-MM-DD)
  - Task management
  - Time-stamped log
  - Idea seeds inbox

### Weekly Notes (`weekly.md`)
- **Purpose**: Weekly review and planning
- **Features**:
  - Review last week's wins/challenges
  - Plan this week's objectives
  - Process idea seeds

### Monthly Notes (`monthly.md`)
- **Purpose**: Monthly reflection
- **Features**:
  - Monthly theme
  - Progress tracking
  - Goal setting

### Quarterly Notes (`quarterly.md`)
- **Purpose**: Strategic planning
- **Features**:
  - Strategic goal review
  - Quarterly theme
  - High-level planning

### Zettels (`zettel.md`)
- **Purpose**: Permanent knowledge notes
- **Features**:
  - Atomic concepts
  - Rich linking
  - Evergreen content

### Projects (`project.md`)
- **Purpose**: Specific deliverables with clear end dates
- **Features**:
  - Clear objectives and timeline
  - Key files and resources
  - Project notes and updates
  - Links to related areas and notes

### Areas (`area.md`)
- **Purpose**: Ongoing responsibilities and domains
- **Features**:
  - Current status tracking
  - Active projects within the area
  - Regular updates and notes
  - Links to related projects and notes

### Meeting Notes
- **Purpose**: Quick meeting note templates within daily notes
- **Usage**: Copy and paste the meeting template below as needed
- **Features**:
  - Structured meeting format
  - Action items with checkboxes
  - Easy to insert anywhere in daily notes

**Meeting Template**:
```markdown
## 📝 Meeting Notes

**With**: 

### 📝 Notes
- 

### ✅ Action Items
- [ ] 
```

## 🔗 Linking System

### Wikilinks
```markdown
[[Note Title]]           # Link to another note
[[Note Title|Display]]   # Link with custom display text
```

### Inserting Links
- **Easiest way**: `<leader>zl` - Opens link picker to search and select notes
- **Manual**: Type `[[` and start typing note title for autocomplete
- **From search**: Use `<space>ff` to find files, then link to them

### Backlinks
- Automatically generated in the "Backlinks" section
- Shows all notes that link to the current note
- Helps discover connections

### Link Navigation
- `gd` on a wikilink to follow it
- `gr` to find references to current note
- `gi` to find similar notes

### Backlink Search
- `:Telekasten backlinks` - Show all notes linking to current note
- `:Telekasten backlinks_here` - Show backlinks for note under cursor
- `:Telekasten search_links` - Search for notes containing specific link patterns

## 🎯 Advanced Features

### Calendar Integration
- Press `<space>zz` to open the telekasten panel
- Navigate dates visually
- Jump to specific daily notes

### Search & Discovery
- `<space>ff` - Find files (telescope)
- `<space>fg` - Live grep search
- `<space>fr` - Frecency (frequently used files)

### Media Support
- Paste images directly into notes
- Preview images with telescope-media-files
- Supports PNG, JPG, JPEG, GIF, WebP

### Markdown Preview
- `<space>mp` - Preview with Glow
- Real-time markdown rendering
- Terminal-native preview

### Snippets
- **Meeting notes**: Copy and paste the meeting template from the Meeting Notes section above
- **Expand snippets**: Use `<Tab>` to expand snippets (for built-in snippets)
- **Navigate snippets**: Use `<Tab>` to jump between fields

### List Management
- **Auto bullets**: Press `Enter` after `-` to create new bullet point
- **Auto numbering**: Press `Enter` after `1.` to create numbered list
- **Auto indentation**: Bullets automatically indent after colons
- **Renumbering**: Numbered lists automatically renumber when items are added/removed
- **Empty cleanup**: Empty bullet points are automatically removed

### Timestamp Shortcuts
- **Insert time**: Press `<Ctrl-g><Ctrl-t>` in insert mode to insert current time (HH:MM)
- **Log entries**: Use in daily note log section for quick time-stamped entries
- **Note**: `<Ctrl-t>` is used by bullets.vim for indenting, so we use `<Ctrl-g><Ctrl-t>` for timestamps

## 📁 File Organization

### Directory Structure
```
~/Dropbox/Apps/zettelkasten/
├── daily/           # Daily notes (YYYY-MM-DD.md)
├── weekly/          # Weekly notes
├── monthly/         # Monthly notes
├── quarterly/       # Quarterly notes
├── templates/       # Note templates
└── [other notes]    # Regular zettels
```

### Naming Conventions
- **Daily**: `2025-01-22.md`
- **Weekly**: `2025-W04.md`
- **Monthly**: `2025-01.md`
- **Quarterly**: `2025-Q1.md`
- **Zettels**: `Descriptive Title.md`

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables
```bash
export TELEKASTEN_HOME="/path/to/your/zettelkasten"
# or
export ZK_HOME="/path/to/your/zettelkasten"
```

### Custom Templates
Templates are located in `~/Dropbox/Apps/zettelkasten/templates/`:
- `daily.md` - Daily note template
- `weekly.md` - Weekly note template
- `monthly.md` - Monthly note template
- `quarterly.md` - Quarterly note template
- `yearly.md` - Yearly note template
- `zettel.md` - Zettel template
- `project.md` - Project template
- `area.md` - Area template

## 🎨 Template Variables

Templates support these variables (use `{{variable}}` syntax):
- `{{date}}` - Date in ISO format (2025-01-22)
- `{{year}}` - Year (2025)
- `{{time24}}` - Time with 24-hour clock (19:12:23)
- `{{time12}}` - Time with 12-hour clock (07:12:23 PM)
- `{{hdate}}` - Date in long format (Sunday, January 22nd, 2025)
- `{{week}}` - Week of the year (46)
- `{{title}}` - Note title
- `{{shorttitle}}` - Short title (filename without path)
- `{{uuid}}` - Unique identifier
- `{{prevday}}` - Previous day (2025-01-21)
- `{{nextday}}` - Next day (2025-01-23)

For a complete list, run `:h telekasten.template_files` in Neovim.

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Daily Note Not Loading Template
1. Check if a blank daily note already exists
2. Delete the blank file: `rm ~/Dropbox/Apps/zettelkasten/daily/YYYY-MM-DD.md`
3. Try `<space>zd` again

### Templates Not Found
1. Run the setup script: `./nvim/scripts/setup.sh`
2. Check templates exist: `ls ~/Dropbox/Apps/zettelkasten/templates/`

### LSP Errors
- Ensure marksman is installed: `brew install marksman`
- Check LSP configuration in `lua/user/plugins/coding.lua`

## 💡 Best Practices

### Note Creation
1. **Start with daily notes** - capture everything there first
2. **Process regularly** - move ideas from daily to permanent notes
3. **Link everything** - build a web of connections
4. **Keep atomic** - one concept per zettel

### Linking Strategy
1. **Link to concepts**, not just topics
2. **Use descriptive titles** for easy linking
3. **Create index notes** for major topics
4. **Review backlinks** to discover connections

### Maintenance
1. **Weekly reviews** - process seeds and plan ahead
2. **Monthly reviews** - reflect on progress and themes
3. **Quarterly reviews** - strategic planning and goal setting
4. **Regular cleanup** - archive or delete outdated notes

## 🎯 Workflow Examples

### Daily Workflow
1. Open daily note (`<space>zd`)
2. Set daily objective
3. Add tasks to task list
4. Capture ideas in seeds section
5. Log important events with timestamps

### Weekly Workflow
1. Open weekly note
2. Review last week's daily notes
3. Process seeds from daily notes
4. Plan this week's objectives
5. Create zettels from processed ideas

### Research Workflow
1. Create a new zettel (`<space>zn`)
2. Take notes and add links
3. Create related zettels as needed
4. Build a network of connected concepts
5. Review backlinks to discover new connections

---

*Happy note-taking! 🎉*
